and the Lord spoke to Moses in the
plains of Moab by the Jordan across from
Jericho command the children of Israel
that they give the Levites cities to
dwell in from the inheritance of their
possession and you shall also give the
Levites common land around the cities
they shall have the cities to dwell in
and their common land shall be for their
cattle for their herds and for all their
animals the common land of the cities
which you will give to the Levites shall
extend from the wall of the city outward
a thousand cubits all around and you
shall measure outside the city on the
east side two thousand cubits on the
south side two thousand cubits on the
west side two thousand cubits and on the
north side two thousand cubits the city
shall be in the middle this shall belong
to them as common land for the cities
now among the cities which you will give
to the Levites you shall appoint six
cities of refuge to which a man Slayer
may flee and to these you shall add
forty two cities so all the cities you
will give to the Levites shall be 48
these you shall give with their common
land and the cities which you will give
shall be from the possession of the
children of Israel from the larger tribe
you shall give many from the smaller you
shall give fuel each shall give some of
its cities to the Levites in proportion
to the inheritance that each receives
from the Lord spoke to Moses saying
speak to the children of Israel and say
to them when you cross the Jordan into
the land of Canaan then you shall
appoint cities to be cities of refuge
for you that the man Slayer who kills
any person accidentally may flee there
they shall be cities of refuge for you
from the Avenger that the manslayer may
not die until he stands before the
congregation in judgment and of the
cities which you give you shall have six
cities of refuge you shall appoint three
cities on this side of the Jordan and
three cities you shall appoint in the
land of Canaan which will be cities of
refuge these six cities shall be for
refuge for the children of Israel for
the stranger and for the Sojourner among
them that anyone who kills a person
accidentally may flee there but if he
strikes him with an iron implement so
that he dies he is a murderer the
murderer shall surely be put to death
and if he strikes him with a stone in
the hand by which one could die and he
does die he is a murderer the murderer
shall surely be put to death or if he
strikes him with a wooden hand weapon by
which one could die and he does die he
is a murderer the murderer shall surely
be put to death the Avenger of blood
himself shall put the murderer to death
when he meets him he shall put him to
death if he pushes him out of hatred or
while lying in wait hurls something at
him so that he dies or in enmity he
strikes him with his hand so that he
dies the one who struck him shall surely
be put to death he is a murderer
the Avenger of blood shall put the
murderer today
when he meets him however if he pushes
him suddenly without any mitten or
throws anything at him without lying in
wait or uses a stone by which a man
could die throwing it at him without
seeing him
so that he dies while he was not his
enemy or seeking his harm then the
congregation shall judge between the
manslayer and the Avenger of blood
according to these judgments so the
congregation shall deliver the manslayer
from the hand of the Avenger of blood
and the congregation shall return him to
the City of Refuge where he had fled and
he shall remain there until the death of
the high priest who was anointed with
the holy oil
but if the man Slayer at any time goes
outside the limits of the City of Refuge
where he fled and the Avenger of blood
finds him outside the limits of his city
of refuge and the Avenger of blood kills
the manslayer he shall not be guilty of
blood because he should have remained in
his city of refuge until the death of
the high priest but after the death of
the high priest the manslayer may return
to the
of his position and these things shall
be a statute of judgement to you
throughout your generations in all your
dwellings whoever kills a person the
murderer shall be put to death on the
testimony of witnesses but one witness
is not sufficient testimony against a
person for the death penalty moreover
you shall take no ransom for the life of
a murderer who is guilty of death but he
shall surely be put to death and you
shall take no ransom for him who was
fled to his city of refuge that he may
return to dwell in the land before the
death of the priests so you shall not
pollute the land where you are for blood
defiles the land and no atonement can be
made for the land for the blood that is
shed on it except by the blood of him
who shed it therefore do not defile the
land which you inhabit in the midst of
which I dwell for I the Lord dwell among
the children of Israel